src/SUMMARY.md, before:

# Summary

- [Introduction](./index.md)
    - [Pinout](./pico2-pinout.md)
    - [Dev Environment](./setup.md)
    - [Quick Start](./quick-start.md)
    - [Abstraction Layers](./abstraction-layers.md)
    - [Project Template](./cargo-generate.md)
    - [Running the Program](./running.md)
    - [Help & Troubleshooting](./help.md)
- [Core Concepts](./core-concepts/index.md)
    - [Voltage Divider](./core-concepts/voltage-divider.md)
    - [ADC](./core-concepts/adc.md)
    - [PWM](./core-concepts/pwm/index.md)
        - [PWM in Depth](./core-concepts/pwm/pwm-in-depth.md)
    - [I2C](./core-concepts/i2c.md)
    - [Watchdog](./core-concepts/watchdog.md)
    - [no_std, no_main in Rust](./core-concepts/no-std-main.md)
- [Dimming LED](./led/index.md)
    - [PWM in RP2350](./led/pwm-rp2350.md)
    - [Dim LED with RP HAL](./led/rp-hal.md)
    - [Using External LED](./led/external-led.md)
- [Ultrasonic](./ultrasonic/index.md)
    - [How it works?](./ultrasonic/how-it-works.md)
    - [Circuit](./ultrasonic/circuit.md)
    - [Code](./ultrasonic/code.md)
- [OLED Display](./oled/index.md)
    - [Hello World](./oled/hello-oled.md)
    - [Ferris](./oled/ferris.md)
- [Servo Motor](./servo/index.md)
    - [Intro](./servo/servo.md)
    - [More on PWM](./servo/pwm.md)
    - [Servo and Pico](./servo/servo-pico.md)
    - [Action](./servo/action.md)
- [Buzzinga](./buzzer/intro.md)
    - [Intro to Buzzer](./buzzer/buzzer.md)
    - [Beep](./buzzer/beep.md)
    - [GOT Buzzer?](./buzzer/got-buzzer.md)
        - [Musical notes](./buzzer/music-theory.md)
        - [Music module](./buzzer/music-module.md)
        - [got module](./buzzer/got-module.md)
        - [Play](./buzzer/play.md)
    - [Active Beep](./buzzer/active-beep.md)
- [LDR](./ldr/index.md)
    - [What is LDR](./ldr/ldr.md)
    - [LDR and LED](./ldr/ldr-led/index.md)
        - [Action](./ldr/ldr-led/action.md)
- [Thermistor](./thermistor/index.md)
    - [NTC and Voltage Divider](./thermistor/voltage-divider.md)
    - [ADC](./thermistor/adc.md)
        - [Maths](./thermistor/adc-maths.md)
    - [Non-Linear](./thermistor/non-linear.md)
        - [B Equation](./thermistor/b-equation.md)
        - [Steinhart Equation](./thermistor/steinhart.md)
    - [Temperature on OLED](./thermistor/temperature/index.md)
        - [Action](./thermistor/temperature/action.md)
- [USB Serial](./usb-serial/index.md)
    - [Action](./usb-serial/action.md)
- [RFID](./rfid/index.md)
    - [Hardware](./rfid/rc522.md)
    - [MIFARE](./rfid/mifare.md)
    - [Flow](./rfid/flow.md)
    - [Circuit](./rfid/circuit.md)
    - [Read UID](./rfid/read-uid.md)
        - [LED on UID Match](./rfid/uid-led.md)
    - [Read Data](./rfid/read-data.md)
        - [Dump Memory](./rfid/dump-memory.md)
    - [Write Data](./rfid/write-data.md)
        - [Change Auth Key](./rfid/change-auth-key.md)
    - [Access control](./rfid/access-bits.md)
        - [AccessBits Calc](./rfid/access-bits-calculator.md)
- [SD Card (MMC/SDC)](./sdcard/index.md)
    - [Circuit](./sdcard/circuit.md)
    - [Read SD Card](./sdcard/read-sdcard.md)
- [LCD Display](./lcd-display/index.md)
    - [How it works?](./lcd-display/how-it-works.md)
    - [Pin Layout](./lcd-display/pin-layout.md)
    - [Circuit](./lcd-display/circuit.md)
    - [Hello, Rust!](./lcd-display/hello-rust.md)
    - [Supported Characters](./lcd-display/supported-characters.md)
    - [Custom Characters](./lcd-display/custom-chars.md)
        - [Generator](./lcd-display/lcd-custom-char-generator.md)
        - [Display on LCD](./lcd-display/display-custom-chars.md)
        - [Multi Generator](./lcd-display/multi-custom-gen.md)
        - [Multi Custom](./lcd-display/multi-custom-character.md)
        - [Symbols Index](./lcd-display/custom-symbols-index.md)
- [Joystick](./joystick/index.md)
    - [Movement and ADC](./joystick/movement-and-12-bit-adc-value.md)
    - [Pin layout](./joystick/pin-layout.md)
    - [Circuit](./joystick/circuit.md)
    - [Print ADC Values](./joystick/adc-values-to-ubs-serial.md)
- [Projects](./projects.md)
- [Resources](./resources.md)

Commit message:

building Rust firmware from scratch for Pico 2

src/SUMMARY.md, after:

# Summary

- [Introduction](./index.md)
    - [Pinout](./pico2-pinout.md)
    - [Dev Environment](./setup.md)
    - [Quick Start](./quick-start.md)
    - [Abstraction Layers](./abstraction-layers.md)
    - [Project Template](./cargo-generate.md)
    - [Running the Program](./running.md)
    - [Help & Troubleshooting](./help.md)
- [From std to no_std](./std-to-no-std/index.md)
    - [Cross Compilation](./std-to-no-std/cross-compilation/index.md)
        - [For Microcontroller](./std-to-no-std/cross-compilation/embedded.md)
    - [no_std](./std-to-no-std/no-std.md)
    - [Panic Handler](./std-to-no-std/panic-handler.md)
    - [no_main](./std-to-no-std/no-main.md)
    - [Peripherals](./std-to-no-std/peripherals.md)
    - [Embassy for Pico](./std-to-no-std/embassy-rp.md)
    - [Blinking LED](./std-to-no-std/blinking-pico-led-with-rust.md)
    - [Flashing](./std-to-no-std/flashing-rust-into-pico.md)
    - [Linker Script](./std-to-no-std/rust-linker-script.md)
- [Core Concepts](./core-concepts/index.md)
    - [Voltage Divider](./core-concepts/voltage-divider.md)
    - [ADC](./core-concepts/adc.md)
    - [PWM](./core-concepts/pwm/index.md)
        - [PWM in Depth](./core-concepts/pwm/pwm-in-depth.md)
    - [I2C](./core-concepts/i2c.md)
    - [Watchdog](./core-concepts/watchdog.md)
- [Dimming LED](./led/index.md)
    - [PWM in RP2350](./led/pwm-rp2350.md)
    - [Dim LED with RP HAL](./led/rp-hal.md)
    - [Using External LED](./led/external-led.md)
- [Ultrasonic](./ultrasonic/index.md)
    - [How it works?](./ultrasonic/how-it-works.md)
    - [Circuit](./ultrasonic/circuit.md)
    - [Code](./ultrasonic/code.md)
- [OLED Display](./oled/index.md)
    - [Hello World](./oled/hello-oled.md)
    - [Ferris](./oled/ferris.md)
- [Servo Motor](./servo/index.md)
    - [Intro](./servo/servo.md)
    - [More on PWM](./servo/pwm.md)
    - [Servo and Pico](./servo/servo-pico.md)
    - [Action](./servo/action.md)
- [Buzzinga](./buzzer/intro.md)
    - [Intro to Buzzer](./buzzer/buzzer.md)
    - [Beep](./buzzer/beep.md)
    - [GOT Buzzer?](./buzzer/got-buzzer.md)
        - [Musical notes](./buzzer/music-theory.md)
        - [Music module](./buzzer/music-module.md)
        - [got module](./buzzer/got-module.md)
        - [Play](./buzzer/play.md)
    - [Active Beep](./buzzer/active-beep.md)
- [LDR](./ldr/index.md)
    - [What is LDR](./ldr/ldr.md)
    - [LDR and LED](./ldr/ldr-led/index.md)
        - [Action](./ldr/ldr-led/action.md)
- [Thermistor](./thermistor/index.md)
    - [NTC and Voltage Divider](./thermistor/voltage-divider.md)
    - [ADC](./thermistor/adc.md)
        - [Maths](./thermistor/adc-maths.md)
    - [Non-Linear](./thermistor/non-linear.md)
        - [B Equation](./thermistor/b-equation.md)
        - [Steinhart Equation](./thermistor/steinhart.md)
    - [Temperature on OLED](./thermistor/temperature/index.md)
        - [Action](./thermistor/temperature/action.md)
- [USB Serial](./usb-serial/index.md)
    - [Action](./usb-serial/action.md)
- [RFID](./rfid/index.md)
    - [Hardware](./rfid/rc522.md)
    - [MIFARE](./rfid/mifare.md)
    - [Flow](./rfid/flow.md)
    - [Circuit](./rfid/circuit.md)
    - [Read UID](./rfid/read-uid.md)
        - [LED on UID Match](./rfid/uid-led.md)
    - [Read Data](./rfid/read-data.md)
        - [Dump Memory](./rfid/dump-memory.md)
    - [Write Data](./rfid/write-data.md)
        - [Change Auth Key](./rfid/change-auth-key.md)
    - [Access control](./rfid/access-bits.md)
        - [AccessBits Calc](./rfid/access-bits-calculator.md)
- [SD Card (MMC/SDC)](./sdcard/index.md)
    - [Circuit](./sdcard/circuit.md)
    - [Read SD Card](./sdcard/read-sdcard.md)
- [LCD Display](./lcd-display/index.md)
    - [How it works?](./lcd-display/how-it-works.md)
    - [Pin Layout](./lcd-display/pin-layout.md)
    - [Circuit](./lcd-display/circuit.md)
    - [Hello, Rust!](./lcd-display/hello-rust.md)
    - [Supported Characters](./lcd-display/supported-characters.md)
    - [Custom Characters](./lcd-display/custom-chars.md)
        - [Generator](./lcd-display/lcd-custom-char-generator.md)
        - [Display on LCD](./lcd-display/display-custom-chars.md)
        - [Multi Generator](./lcd-display/multi-custom-gen.md)
        - [Multi Custom](./lcd-display/multi-custom-character.md)
        - [Symbols Index](./lcd-display/custom-symbols-index.md)
- [Joystick](./joystick/index.md)
    - [Movement and ADC](./joystick/movement-and-12-bit-adc-value.md)
    - [Pin layout](./joystick/pin-layout.md)
    - [Circuit](./joystick/circuit.md)
    - [Print ADC Values](./joystick/adc-values-to-ubs-serial.md)
- [Projects](./projects.md)
- [Resources](./resources.md)
