src/thermistor/index.md, before:

# Thermistor

In this section, we'll be using a thermistor with the Raspberry Pi Pico.  A thermistor is a variable resistor that changes its resistance based on the temperature. The amount of change in resistance depends on its composition.  The term comes from combining "thermal" and "resistor.". 

Thermistors are categorized into two types:
- NTC (Negative Temperature Coefficient): 
    - Resistance decreases as temperature increases. 
    - They are primarily used for temperature sensing and inrush current limiting.
    - We'll be using the NTC thermistor to measure temperature in our exercise.
<img style="display: block; margin: auto;" alt="pico2" src="./images/ntc-resistor.png"/>

- PTC (Positive Temperature Coefficient): 
    - Resistance increases as temperature rises.
    - They primarily protect against overcurrent and overtemperature conditions as resettable fuses and are commonly used in air conditioners, medical devices, battery chargers, and welding equipment.


## Reference
- [Thermistor Basics](https://www.teamwavelength.com/thermistor-basics/)
- [Thermistors](https://www.electronics-tutorials.ws/io/thermistors.html)

Commit message:

Raspberry Pi Pico temperature chatper revised

src/thermistor/index.md, after:

# Thermistor

A thermistor is a resistor whose value changes with temperature. As temperature goes up or down, the resistance changes in a predictable way.  The name "thermistor" is derived from a combination of the words "thermal" and "resistor."

From the microcontroller point of view, a thermistor is just another resistor connected to an ADC pin. The ADC does not know anything about temperature. It only measures voltage. We do the rest in the code.

## NTC vs PTC

There are two common types of thermistors.

An NTC thermistor has lower resistance at higher temperatures. This is the most common type used for temperature measurement in embedded systems.

<img style="display: block; margin: auto;" alt="pico2" src="./images/ntc-resistor.png"/>


A PTC thermistor has higher resistance at higher temperatures. These are usually used for protection or current limiting rather than precise sensing.

In this chapter, we are going to work with an NTC thermistor.


## Reference
- [Thermistor Basics](https://www.teamwavelength.com/thermistor-basics/)
- [Thermistors](https://www.electronics-tutorials.ws/io/thermistors.html)
